# voting_US_pivot_table
#File 1: Pivot Table Exercise Instructions - In this exercise, we will explore some more complex skills to
show the flexibility of Pivot Tables for data analysis using the US Voter data to answer some basic questions about the 2012 election.
#File 2: Pivot Table Exercise Answers - The correct answers to the previous file are highlighted in yellow. 
#File 3: Excel Pivot Table and Data Sorting File - Create a new pivot table from the “Voter Table” table. Upon adding a new pivot, place this in a new worksheet. Excel will suggest this by default. Add State to the rows area and Confirmed Voters to the values area of the fields list in the new pivot table. Add Age Range to the Columns area. Click on the Confirmed Voters field in the Values area and select Value Field Settings to show the Confirmed Voters as a percentage of Row Total. Explore within each state in the Row Labels what % of the total confirmed voters for that state are in each age range, and find the age ranges of total confirmed voters within each state in the row labels. Express that amount as a percentage of the total voters, using the % of Row Total. Insert a calculated field: ='Confirmed Voters' /'Registered Voters'. By default, Excel will include the new calculated field in the Values area of the pivot table. Remove the Sum of Confirmed Voters field. Explore the custom Age Group created earlier to analyze voter turnout. To do this, remove Age Range from the columns area of the pivot table and add in Age Group. Reorder the column labels by clicking on the “Young Adults (25-34)” label first and then repeat for “Youth (<25)”. Optional: Instead of sorting each column label in ascending order you could add a color scale (Green – Yellow – Red Color Scale) to the Voter Turnout % values to create a heatmap to find the lowest Voter Turnout percentages.
